In his book, 'Killing the Top Ten Sacred Cows of Publishing', Dean Wesley Smith points out that for the last few decades--since the end of the "pulps"--the traditional publishing industry has allowed a writer to publish only a few books a year.  Authors who wrote at a faster pace, and who wished to publish their books at a similar rate, were forced to publish under one or more pen names.  With the blossoming of indie publishing, however, a writer can now publish books at the same rate as they write, and the books can be on any topic, and in any genre.

This observation is directly applicable to my 11 Novel Challenge, of course.  Beyond that, I think a similar argument can be made about public speaking in the age of YouTube.  As a graduate student, no one asked me to give talks on my research, or about Scheme programming.  My first speaking opportunity at Indiana University was one of my own making, when a fellow PhD student and I reserved a classroom so we could give a lecture to a handful of willing students on why we loved Lisp so much.  We had planned an entire series of these rogue lectures, but were shut down almost immediately by an irate department secretary who told us that students weren't allowed to research classrooms.

My next experience lecturing on Scheme was as an Assistant Instructor (that is, teaching assistant) in the introductory computer science course, and then in the introductory programming languages course, at Indiana.  In the beginning I mostly taught recitation/lab sessions for students, tying the lecture material to the home work assignments and exams.  While I found these weekly recitation sessions stimulating, exactly what I could talk about was severely restricted by the needs of the courses, and I only gave one to three sessions a week.

The next opportunity I had to talk about programming languages, Scheme, and what-have-you, was when Roshan James and I attempted to reinvigorate the IU programming languages seminar, under the advisement of Professor Amr Sabry.  Apparently there was a great deal of pent up demand, since PL Wonks grew to be stading room only by the time I left Bloomington.  At PL Wonks students can talk about their research, or perhaps about a paper or language or idea they find exciting.  Still, with so many students, and only 15 weeks in a semester, I could give maybe two Wonks talks a year.

The next evolution in my ability to speak about programming languages in front of an audience was after I had been an Associate Instructor in Dan Friedman's introductory programming languages course, IU's famous 'C311'.  After writing 'The Reasoned Schemer' with Dan and Oleg Kiselyov, which became one of the textbooks for the course (provided at Dan's expense, so the students didn't have to buy it!), and after being a C311 AI for several years, I started giving lectures when Dan was traveling to a conference or otherwise was unable to make it to class.  After 11 semesters of being Dan's TA, I think I gave at least one lecture on every topic in the course, other than some of the "special topics" Dan would sprinkle in every semester.

Even after co-writing a book, however, I was still only giving two or three lectures per semester, on topics largely constrained by the needs of C311.

It wasn't until well after I finished my PhD that people started inviting me to give talks on miniKanren or Scheme or functional/relational programming.

I remain grateful for each of these speaking opportunities, and I learned a tremendous amount while at Indiana.  At the same time--especially as a new graduate student, but even as a postdoc or research scientist--there are a relatively small number of chances to give talks about programming languages if you have to wait to be invited to speak somewhere, or even if you are a teaching assistant.  And for many of these opportunities, there are severe restrictions on which topics are in scope.  For undergraduates, hobbyists, and industry programmers, the speaking opportunities are generally even more infrequent.

