Hello!

Welcome to Will's Silent Writing Session!

It is Toooo Late by far for me to record audio, so I am going to record myself writing.

Visual Radio!

I have been thinking about Book 1, and about writing books, and all that, quite a bit.  I so far have been slow at writing Book 1, although I have been more active in writing myself notes during the day, using Apple Notes app, which is kinda wonky, but is at least sync'd between my phone and lappy.

I've also been reading books by Dean Wesley Smith at a furious pace, one book per night.  He is of the Old Skool Pulp Fiction tradition, at least by temperment.  He was a publisher of Harlan Ellison, who could crank out words in any environment, about any type of story or plot, like clockwork.

In 'Writing a Novel in Seven-Days: A Hands-on Example', Smith blogs about writing a novel from scratch, 43,000 words, in 7 days, while working a 44 hour work week, getting a decent night's sleep, watching some TV, etc.  Because it is fun!  He was able to hit his increasing word counts:

3,700
5,100
5,600
6,050
7,500
8,050
7,000

for a total of 43,050 words.

As the novel progressed, his writing got faster.

Even at his slowest, though, he was on pace for:

(* 3700 365) => 1350500

1.3 million words a year (assuming he wrote every day)

At that pace he could take weekends off, for example, and still probably hit a million words.

His novel went to press in it's first draft, with editing, but without a major rewrite.


He also mentions that, from talking with other authors, the number of 1 million words written seems to be special.  I was just reading Jerry Pournelle's advice on how to get his job in which he says 1 million words written, finished, polished (and perhaps thrown away) is probably the right amount / minimal amount for an inspiring writer to learn the craft.

The interesting thing to me about Smith is that he could keep up that pace (and then some!) at age 65 while working a full-time job.  His whole point was, "If I can do it, what is stopping you?"

I really haven't written that many words on Book 1 yet (as of Sunday, Feb 4):

     595 attic.txt
    1275 awesome-notes.txt
     536 book.txt
      73 ideas.txt
     122 rules.txt
     328 thoughts.txt
    2929 total

Of course I've been trying to screw up my courage and feel my way around, and figure out what my book is about.

Still, I feel like I'm treating my words as a little too...Precious, as Toki would say.

Hmmm--I've got an idea!!!  :)  :P

(You probably can guess where this is going...)

Up the challenge, yet again!

Time for Operation Pulp Speed

Burger Time it!

I just wrote 468 words. EZ.

My new challenge, on top of the kiloTube of YT vids, and the 11 books, all in 2024, is to...

write a million words in 2024.

This doesn't have to be in the books, alone.  I'm not sure my books can handle a million words.

Well, maybe they can, if I violate the No Rewiting Unless to Editorial Demand rule of Heinlein.

I guess if I wrote Book 5 five times from scratch, that would be putting in some words.

And I remember Olin's Meta-advice about listening to standard advice for standard outcomes, but following your own nose when it comes to what you care about.

Since this whole exercise--the Challenges, that is--is to get me to complete things by making things less Precious by entering Assembly Line/Factory/Burger Restaurant Mode/Pulp Speed mindspace, the idea that I can rewrite Book 1 5 times from scratch, so long as I finish by the end of February, makes sense to me.

After all, I already have a forcing function:  the book is going out the door on the 29th.  I don't mind sending out the 4th or 5th complete draft, rather than the first draft--send out the one that is best.

Another way to think about it is to follow Dan's rule of writing--when there is a question about which of two ways to write a chapter of a book, try both!  Finish both versions.  Then throw at least one version away!

The 2017 ICFP pearl and 2012 pearl and prefaces and forewords I've worked on all benefitted immensely from rewrites--very significant rewrites, and sometimes 5 separate drafts.  Usually by draft 3 to 5 things start to coallesce. <- you know what I mean.

755 words so far!

Significantly longer than what I've written so far.

Oops--I clicked on the Stop button on the MBP toolbar thingy.  Another failure mode.  I just figured out I can click on the X to minimize the toolbar and keep me from clicking on Stop accidentally.

Yes, I think writing a million words this year sounds write/right!!  :P

Happy Accident

That will get me squarely into Burger Timing mode: make moar burgers!!  (Veggie burgers)  Moar product.  Another busload of customers have arrived.  Flip faster!  Pulp Speed, as Smith calls it.

I'll bet you that if I write at Pulp Speed, *and* do 3 to 5 drafts in the month, I could produce a book that is better than if I had obsessed over every word, but only written one draft (and prolly abandoned it 1/3 of the way through).

Yep, that's what I'm going to do.

I have to say, after reading the double-volume Asimov auto-biography, I was practically on fire with the desire to write, and to write a lot!

And I'll also say that with making the videos at what sounds like a furious and ridiculous and unsustainable pace, I'm already starting to feel a modicum of what Asimov must have felt.  Can I squeeze in a video between these two meetings?  Can I get in a little writing tonight?  Etc.

I'm even starting to get the itch to write deciAsimov's worth of books, not just milliAsimov's.

Potential Issues:

* working full time, and then some.  Smith shows that isn't an excuse.  In fact, much of my writing will be connected to my research.  I'm *supposed* to be writing.  Many of my million words will be on papers, I suspect.  (I'm not sure how much of that I will be able to show--we'll see.)

* necessity to be quiet in early mornings and late at night--turns out that QuickTime Player lets you choose 'None' as the microphone input for a screen recording!  Learned that tonight.  Necessity being the Mother of Invention...

* risk of repetitive strain injury from typing.  This is real.  I've suffered from this before, to a lesser extent.  I will have to experiment with my setup.  Worst comes to worst, I might end up using an LLM for transcription, or whatever.  I even found fancy microphones you can talk into that are like foam funnels, to keep your voice from carrying.  I'll figure it out!  That's part of this adventure.  DS Billy: "I want solutions, not excuses."

1169 words so far

Okay, that is settled.  1 million words by the end of 2024.  I really don't know if I can do this one.  On the other hand, I didn't think I could do 1 kiloTube a few weeks ago, and now I think it's actually pretty easy.  Not sure 11 books is easy, but I'll bet you if I write a million words, and allocate them to books, 11 books won't be so hard.  Really, it's probably more like I'll write 50 books, if I end up writing 5 drafts of each.  That sounds more like it.  11 books seemed a bit wimpy.  50 complete drafts sounds more interesting, and would definitely make me streeeetch and grow and be creative and discover interesting techniques, and also to streamline what I do.

No type for excess ornament or pretension or messing around if I have 50 book drafts to write by end of year.

Tonight I looked at the CC licenses on MIT Press books using Scheme or Racket:

SICP: CC BY 4.0 International (the one I've put on Book 1)

SDF: CC BY Non-Commercial

Essentials of Compilation: CC BY Non-Commercial No-Derivatives

Interesting.  For Book 2 (TMBPEW) I can imagine a publisher actually wanting the book.  (For Book 1, maybe not so much--I don't know.)  I could imagine using CC BY Non-Commercial, especially if MIT Press published it.  The No-Derivatives clause seems too restrictive to me, though.  MIT Press also has some new Open initiative in which libraries contribute $$$$ in order to make new books freely available.  I'm not sure I understand that program, although it sounds interesting.

In any case, Book 1 is the same license as SICP, so I'm in good company!  I would be fine with Book 2 being CC BY Non-Commercial, I *think*, although maybe there is something I'm missing.  I'd be interested in your thoughts.

1482 words so far

My wrists are bothering me a little.  Any suggestions about that?

I think tomorrow I'll try typing at a different desk, to see how that feels.  I can't mess around with RSI.  That would derail all my efforts, and cause other issues.  Gotta protect my wrists.

1532 words so far

I think I'm going to call it a night.  Maybe read some more Smith.  Anyone who has published 100+ books can teach me something.

See you soon!  :)
